# Carbon Emission from Car Calculator Project 

## Project Overview
The **Carbon Emission from Car Calculator** is a Python-based program designed to calculate the carbon emitted by a car during travel. By analyzing fuel type, distance traveled, and vehicle mileage, this program provides users with an estimate of the carbon emissions generated by their trip and offers feedback based on the result.

This project was developed by me as part of the **Python Essentials** course to demonstrate the application of modular programming and mathematical modeling in solving real-world environmental problems.

## Objectives
- To calculate Carbon emission from cars based on fuel stoichiometry.
- To analyze the pollution impact of specific trips.
- To apply **Top-Down Design** and **Modular Programming** concepts.
- To implement input validation and error handling in Python.

## Features
- **Dual Fuel Support:** Accurately calculates emissions for both "PETROL" and "DIESEL" engines using standard emission factors.
- **Modular Architecture:** The project is split into `main.py` (User Interface) and `calculator.py` (Formula Logic) for better maintainability.
- **Error Handling:** Prevents crashes if the user enters invalid text or negative numbers.
- **Interactive Console:** Clean, readable command-line interface that is easy to use.

## Project Structure
```text
Carbon-emission-from-car-calculator-project/
│
├── src/
│   ├── main.py           # Entry point: Handles user input and display
│   ├── calculator.py     # Contains math formulas and factors
│
├── screenshots/
│   ├── output.png        # Main final result
│   ├── step1.png         # Input step 1
│   ├── step2.png         # Input step 2
│   └── step3.png         # Input step 3
│
├── README.md             # Project documentation
└── requirements.txt      # Dependencies
```

## Howto run the project
1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
2. Navigate to the src folder:
 ```cd src```
3. Run the application:
 ```python main.py```

